you're listening to a teaching from Reality LA.
Acts 14, again, if you haven't been with us, I'll just give you a very, very brief synopsis of the previous 13 chapters.
So the mission of Jesus, that everyone would know him and be restored to God through him, has been given over to his disciples.
Some of those disciples ended up in a city called Antioch.
Antioch is just a little bit south of Jerusalem and that church was having a prayer meeting.
In that prayer meeting they discerned by the Spirit of God that he was calling a group of their leaders to go overseas and share the good news of Jesus with people beyond their region who had never heard it before.
Two of those leaders were named Paul and Barnabas.
They would be the leaders of their group.
You're gonna hear their names a lot.
So in Acts chapter 14, we hear about most of that first journey, though not all of it.
We covered some of it in chapter 13.
But in 14, we hear about three different cities that are in modern day Turkey.
We're gonna see them experience some opposition to the gospel.
So that's my short synopsis of Acts chapters one to 13.
Now, chapter 14,
I will read and then pray, Acts 14.
Now at Iconium, they entered together into a Jewish synagogue and spoke in such a way that a great number of both Jews and Greeks believed, but the unbelieving Jews stirred up the Gentiles and poisoned their minds against the brothers.
So they remained for a long time.
Speaking boldly for the Lord, who bore witness to the word of His grace, granting signs and wonders to be done by their hands.
But the people of the city were divided, some sided with the Jews and some with the apostles.
When an attempt was made by both Gentiles and Jews with their rulers to mistreat them and stone them, they learned of it and fled to Lystra and Derby.
Cities in Lyconia, we'll go with Lyconia.
and to the surrounding country.
And there they continued to preach the gospel.
Now at Leistra, there was a man sitting who could not use his feet.
He was crippled from birth and had never walked.
He listened to Paul speaking and Paul looking intently at him and seeing that he had faith to be made well said in a loud voice, stand upright on your feet and he sprang up and began walking.
And when the crowds saw what Paul had done, they lifted up their voices, saying in Laconian, the gods have come down to us in the likeness of men.
Barnabas, they called Zeus and Paul, they called Hermes because he was the chief speaker.
And the priest of Zeus, whose temple was at the entrance of the city, brought oxen and garlands to the gates and wanted to offer sacrifice with the crowds.
but when the apostles, Barnabas and Paul heard of it, they tore their garments and rushed into the crowd, crying out, men, why are you doing these things?
We are also men of like nature with you, and we bring you good news that you should turn away from these vain things to a living God who made heaven and earth and the sea and all that is in them.
In past generations, he allowed all the nations to walk in their own ways.
Yet he did not leave himself without witness.
For he did good by giving you reigns from heaven and fruitful seasons, satisfying your hearts with food and gladness.
Even with these words, they scarcely restrained the people from offering sacrifice to them.
But Jews came from Antioch and Iconium, and having persuaded the crowds, they stoned Paul and dragged him out of the city, supposing that he was dead.
But when the disciples gathered about him, he rose up and entered the city,
and on the next day went on with Barnabas to Derby.
When they had preached the gospel to that city and had made many disciples, they returned to Lystra and Iconium and Antioch, strengthening the souls of the disciples, encouraging them to continue in the faith and saying that through many tribulations, we must enter the kingdom of God.
And when they had appointed elders for them in every church with prayer and fasting, they committed them to the Lord
in whom they had believed.
Then they passed through Pecidia and came to Pamphylia.
And when they had spoken the word in Perga, they went down to Atelia.
And from there, they sailed to Antioch where they had been commended on the grace of God for the work that they had fulfilled.
And when they arrived and gathered the church together, they declared all that God had done with them and how he had opened a door of faith to the Gentiles, and they remained no little time with the disciples.
This is the word of the Lord.
Let's pray.
Father in heaven, thank you for making us one with yourself through our Lord Jesus Christ.
Thank you that all who call on his name will be saved, filled with your Holy Spirit, and called the partner with you on your mission to make yourself known in this world.
We ask as we look into your word today that you would give us eyes to see.
and ears to hear.
Give his hearts to understand.
God, I ask today that you would give courage to our souls as we go on mission day to day.
As for me, I am your vessel lord.
Let the words of my mouth and the meditations of my heart be pleasing to you, O God, our rock, our redeemer.
And everybody in the church said, amen.
Amen, amen.
Last week, a few days before Christmas, last Sunday, in fact.
A couple of members of our church were baptized.
Very exciting.
It's okay to celebrate that.
There we go.
There it is.
We're figuring it out.
We're waking it up.
A couple members of our church were baptized.
And one of them in a conversation I heard about secondhand.
So this is not a direct quote, but something to the sense.
One of them said, I feel light.
I feel free, I feel ready for the mission.
Let's go.
Woo, that's what's up.
I feel the same way, just saying that.
And that is the exact right feeling, getting out of the baptismal.
That's the compelling vision of the kingdom of God that we've received in the gospel that we're reminded of with every baptism.
It moves us to say, everybody's gotta know.
Everybody's got to know.
This is a natural human response to something that changes you, moves you, that works for your life, right?
We know this instinctively.
We've all heard of keto and crossfit and veganism.
And you've heard about the latest movies that are great.
You've heard about the best Thai food in LA and the best tacos.
Why?
Because when we find something beautiful that delights us, that fills us with joy.
The first thing we wanna do is tell somebody.
And so that is the mission.
It is literally that simple.
Christ has come.
Christ lives.
Christ can set you free.
Now go tell somebody.
This is the mission that each of us has called to, made for.
It's ingrained in our bones.
Followers of Jesus, this is what we're supposed to do.
Day, making disciples of all nations as we go about our lives.
That means showing the love of Christ and telling them the good news.
And as they hear continuing to show and tell, to teach them to obey all Christ is commanded, that's discipleship.
And many of us will do this just on a daily basis.
in seemingly mundane ways, inviting a neighbor to church, helping a family member through a difficult time, raising your children to know and enjoy God, loving your friends in these seemingly simple, dismissible things.
The kingdom of God is breaking through.
And a few of us have, and a few of us will go out into places and among people that we do not yet know,
learning their languages, loving them well, and making disciples of another nation.
And no matter what you're called to, or how you're called to do this, this mission that we're called to with Christ is something all of us are meant to be in.
So whether you're a stay-at-home parent, a business leader, a doctor, a teacher, a pastor, it's all one mission.
and all of us can learn from this group of missionaries in Acts 14.
I could highlight so many things here.
I mean, it's an entire chapter of Scripture.
I could go on about how the mission requires us to know the word that Paul and Barnabas argued boldly and convincingly in a Jewish synagogue where people knew the Scripture and made Christ so clear that these people who thought they knew realized something
new and wonderful that Christ has come.
And he was promised and has fulfilled the Scripture.
I could go on and on about how this chapter shows us that the mission requires wisdom, that you can't minister to a bunch of people who know the word, the same way you minister to people who know nothing about it.
Their ministry in Lystra is completely different from their ministry in Iconium.
And so it requires wisdom.
It requires wisdom to know when to stand up,
and face opposition and when to leave town lest you get stoned.
I could go on and on about how here in this chapter we see the importance of the power of God for it is God who bore witness to the word of his grace by miracles and wonders.
And it is God who made a lame man walk so that people who had never heard the truth of scripture might hear the gospel and be saved.
I could go on
and on about how that power doesn't just belong to super Christians, but everyday disciples, because it was Paul who laid dead, and a group of everyday disciples who gathered around him to pray, and he was raised again.
I could go on and on, but my son reminded me that kids are in the room, and I need to be short.
So I prayed.
I prayed and I asked the Lord, what would you have me focus on today?
What does our church need to hear?
So I'm gonna focus on three things that we see in Acts 14 that are essential for life and mission with Jesus.
Three things in Acts 14 that are essential for life and mission with Jesus.
The first is this, to live on a mission with Jesus in our city and any city is courage.
You need courage.
Imagine the courage that it would take to stand before a group of people who are saying, you are a God.
We will give you all the power you ask for.
Imagine the courage it would take to say, no, no.
I am not God.
Christ is Lord.
Put away your riches.
Put away your power.
I don't want any of it.
Now, God bless you.
You think you could do that.
But money and power are greatly alluring.
Imagine the courage necessary to face the opposition that Paul and Barnumus are facing.
There's a word that gets used in the church a lot.
The word is encouragement.
That was encouraging.
That encouraged me.
And sometimes what we mean is, that made me feel good.
Encouragement
has a very specific meaning.
I don't want you to like start policing how other people use this word.
But you could police how you use it.
Maybe.
Courage comes from the Latin word that means heart.
Heart, will, inner strength.
And so to encourage is to put that heart into other people.
It is literally to put heart in something.
To give someone the will
to go on.
And so, courage is something we can impart to one another.
Courage is something that you can grow in.
Courage, as I remind my children all the time, is not the absence of fear, but having the heart, the willpower, to do what is necessary in spite of fear.
And it's not a thing that belongs only to extraordinary people.
In fact, just right now, take like two seconds and think about
a story of courage that you've read about, heard about, or heard.
It's ordinary people in extraordinary circumstances, doing something uncommon.
Courage is something that belongs to ordinary people because we're all people who need courage.
I love this quote from Ralph Waldo Emerson.
He said, a hero is no braver than any ordinary man.
but he is brave five minutes longer.
And so courage is something all of us can have and we can learn here in Acts 14.
And we need courage because opposition is guaranteed and the danger is real.
Let's look at the courage of Paul and Barnabas first in Iconium.
They go to Iconium and they go first to the synagogue.
And that is for two reasons.
One, because that's where people know the scripture so they can preach the gospel very easily.
Two, in that synagogue would be people who are called God-fearrs.
That is non-Jews, also those Gentiles, that's Gentiles who understand that the God of the Bible is the one true God and they've joined in with the community, but they're not Jewish.
Paul and Barnabas go to the synagogue knowing that those godfearers will be a bridge to the broader culture.
Those godfearers have a foot in both worlds.
And so if we can get them to believe the gospel, if they will turn to Jesus and be saved, they will be an open door into the rest of the city.
So they go and it works.
Some Jews and some Gentiles in the city of Iconium hear the gospel and believe.
but just as quickly opposition rises up.
This opposition here in Iconium is indirect.
Some of the people who oppose the message team up with those who may have been enemies and the government to find ways to do an injustice and mistreat Paul Barnabas and the missionary group that's come with them.
And so it takes great courage from them, but look at what they do.
In verse two, it says, unbelieving Jews stirred up the Gentiles and poisoned their mind against the brothers.
So unbelieving Jews and Gentiles have worked together to convince people that these Christians mean poorly, mean ill for their town.
They've poisoned the minds against them.
So look at what Paul and Barnabas do.
So they remain for a long time speaking boldly for the Lord.
And the Lord does a work.
He bore witness to the word of His grace, granting signs and wonders to be done by their hands.
So the opposition to the Iconium is real, but it's indirect.
And they have the courage to stay.
Now they also have the wisdom to leave when it's time to leave.
So they leave Iconium and they go to Lystra.
Lystra is a different town, despite being in the Roman Empire.
This small town likely spoke Greek and lyestrian.
I don't know how to say that word.
Lyestrian.
We'll go with lyestrian for now.
But there's no synagogue here.
As being in Greek culture, they probably had a marketplace where local philosophers and teachers would teach in the open air, trying to gain more followers.
And so Paul and Barnabas would have joined that square and preached the gospel right next to all of these other ideas in the market.
And it's God's power that moves here.
God's power moves first.
So in Iconium, they met opposition after the Word went forth and then power followed.
In Leistra, God's power moves.
And the first opposition they get is a complete misunderstanding of the message.
Paul and Barnabas narrowly avoid being worshipped as gods, and the missionaries get to work making disciples, but now the real opposition sets in.
This opposition is much more direct.
Sometime after the episode around almost having a bull sacrifice to them, the persecutors from Iconium and from Antioch show up.
People come all the way from other cities.
just to start a fight.
But this time, instead of seeking legal routes, they turned to public opinion and turned the people themselves against the disciples.
This opposition is direct and it is violent.
In the span of a few days, the people who wanted to exalt Paul as a God, drug him out of the city and stoned into death.
What are the disciples gonna do?
Well, they could scatter
They could run away, but in verse 20, when the disciples gathered about him, that is Paul, he rose up and entered the city.
So Paul and Barnabas show us, and then they go to Derby and they preach the gospel and many disciples are made there.
So to recap here, we need courage on the mission because opposition is real, danger is real.
In Iconium, we see indirect opposition.
In Lystra, we see direct and violent opposition.
In Derby, the gospel is received.
Many disciples are made.
Quick side note, preach the gospel, results may vary.
Some will follow Jesus.
Some will turn against you.
Some may try to exalt you as a God, but you don't dictate outcomes.
Your call is to be faithful.
Which in some way, in some ways, is more difficult.
than knowing the outcome.
And so we need courage just to try because we have no idea what's gonna happen.
We need courage just to try because we don't know what's gonna happen.
But danger is real and I wanna briefly point out danger in the global church because it's very easy to forget about with a news cycle that doesn't cover it
and living a pretty comfortable life in a pretty affluent country.
On the island of Bali in Indonesia, right now, Muslim extremists frequently attack Christians in the open with no recourse, and a person converting to Christianity may be ostracized from their family, lose their business, and lose all social standing.
In Kazakhstan,
Christian activity is closely monitored by the government, fined regularly and publicly shamed by the surrounding community.
In various places in Mali, missionaries and pastors are regularly kidnapped and their homes and church buildings are destroyed.
The Vietnamese government sees Christianity as a threat to power and control and so closely monitors all churches at all times
and frequently denies Christians access to basic needs like utilities, social service, and education.
Persecution is a real thing.
It's a thing that Jesus faced, it's a thing that church has faced since the beginning, and it's happening right now.
Unless we get too comfortable, we need to be reminded that we have brothers and sisters across the world in pain and in prison who need our prayers and our support.
And so pray for the nations.
Pray that the Lord would give courage in the face of opposition.
Pray that the Lord would give voice to the martyrs.
If you want more information on how to pray, you can go to voiceofthemarders.com, you can go to frontier missions for specific insights into the Muslim world.
But that danger to the Christian church is still real, though we don't experience on a daily basis.
And so we must pray.
Now, recognizing that danger is real, we also need to acknowledge the danger that we are presently in in our own city.
So a brief word on that.
Because we need courage against constant pressure on the poisoning of the mind.
These are two kinds of opposition that I see both in the text,
Acts 14 and in our own city.
Constant pressure and the poisoning of the mind.
Constant sometimes subtle pressure to abandon Jesus and the teachings of Scripture is prevalent.
In Acts 14 we see it in Iconium when unbelieving Jews stir up the Gentiles when they go to the government and look for ways to mistreat.
The missionaries, we see crowds obviously pressing and stoning, stoning Paul.
This constant pressure is a danger.
Now, here's the difference between, here's why constant pressure is sometimes, sometimes more dangerous than overt direct opposition.
Because if I come at you like this, right, menacingly,
That's menacing, right?
This is scary.
If I come at you like that and I'm just stalking towards you, you're gonna do one of two things.
You're gonna run or you're gonna knuckle up.
Some of y'all need to chill.
But you're gonna know what's coming and you're gonna be ready for that.
Now, imagine the difference between that experience and standing in the courtyard and just having somebody lean on you.
Just put their weight on you.
That's it.
Not a big deal at first, but over time, the strength and energy it takes to assert counter pressure and remain upright wears you out.
You are slowly unknowingly worn down until you've got to change your situation or get pushed over.
I think sometimes living in LA is like that.
It's a constant, sometimes gentle pressure away from Christ.
To conform to the world's way of thinking, our city's way of living, the way people see career, money, relationships, God, other people, leads to a different way of
thinking and speaking of going about our jobs and becomes very difficult to resist.
The love of possessions, love of pleasure, prideful self-focused denial of God's word, it creeps in slowly over time, not all of a sudden.
This effect of living in L.A. is amplified by the internet.
As voices offering, offering counter narratives,
are constantly in our ears, and sometimes we willingly subject ourselves to them, not knowing that they are pushing us ever so gently away from Christ.
This is a danger that we're all in.
And some of us, I think, feel the pressure more than we're aware of.
And it's why getting out of LA is sometimes really helpful.
It's also why being in church on Sunday is extremely helpful.
I spend six days a week
under pressure.
Give me two hours of Jesus.
With his people, at his table, hearing his truth being reminded of who I am, constant, gentle pressure is a danger in our city.
The other danger that I see in this text and in our city is what was described here in verse two, the poisoning of the mind against the brothers.
This is part of, but not the same as the pressure.
It's a slow convincing that the church is against you, that the church is bad, that the church is wrong, a slow poisoning of the mind.
Poisoning of the mind turns us bitter.
Here's why this is different, because sometimes it's other Christians doing it.
Sometimes it's people saying they're Christians.
But they're also telling you who's in and who's out, how to know you're on the right team, and who to stand against, who to condemn.
The slow poisoning the mind stirs up division in Christ's church, and that is way too easy to stir.
And it's rampant in our culture.
It seems like people enjoy provoking hatred against the church.
But my friends, do not engage with this kind of stuff.
Whispers of distrust do not bring reconciliation.
Open, humble conversations will.
Passing rumors will not bring peace, but gentle confrontation of wrongdoing will.
Using uncharitable language to discuss this pastor, that congregation, will only deepen the divides that already
That already I say with tears exist all too often in the global church.
Few of us will face the kind of persecution that the Iconians and the Lyestrians brought against Paul and Barnabas in our lifetime.
But we need to be ready for it.
And we prepare for it by knowing the danger that we're in right now.
By looking to Christ.
by not being afraid, by living courageously against the constant gentle pressure and the messages that would poison our mind against God and his people.
To live on mission with Jesus requires courage because the danger is real, though not often obvious.
But that courage cannot be fostered in isolation.
You may have drove here today by yourself, but you are not in a room by yourself.
And so I will observe the second thing that I feel led to in this text that we need for the mission of God is community.
To live on mission with Jesus, you need courage and you need community.
Life on mission is not about you becoming a spiritual John Wick.
running all over town, speaking boldly, telling this guy to get up and walk, telling that girl to see.
Life on mission with Jesus is about making disciples, doing the long, slow work, of teaching them to follow Jesus, love one another and serve our city, that they could together, as a community, would be a perpetual display of the love of Christ to their city.
Paul knew that, Barnabas knew that, and that's why they were committed, not to just make converts, but disciples.
So to live on mission with Jesus, you need community.
And lest I make this strictly about a program, I'm gonna talk about it this in two ways.
You need to invest in the community, and you need to receive from the community.
I'm just gonna tell you at the outset, for some of you, one of these is gonna be really hard.
It's gonna be the invest.
For others of you, the receive part's gonna be hard.
Just stick with me all the way through.
You need community, you need to invest in community.
Paul and Barnabas are obviously doing that.
It wouldn't take a lot of work for me to unpack, it would take a long time for me to unpack all of the ways.
that they're doing that.
And it wouldn't take a lot of work for you to notice them as you read.
Paul and Barnabas go to people they don't know.
They stay when things get hard.
They continually encourage as things get increasingly difficult.
They stay long enough to teach them not just what to think but how to practice.
We notice that they pray and fast together.
So there is a lived practice together that they're doing as a community.
The summary of the mission in Derby, I think, is the peak example of their investment in the community.
They preached the gospel and made many disciples.
Preaching the gospel is easy.
Making disciples takes time.
A disciple is not someone who answers an altar call and then goes right back to the way they were living life before.
A disciple of Jesus is a student of his way of life.
A disciple draws near to Christ, learns from Christ and becomes like Christ.
Many disciples were made, tells us Paul and Barnabas stayed there until they knew this is a community who knows how to do this without us.
This is a community that knows the way of Jesus and can live it and tell the city about it.
I don't know what that means.
I wrote something down, I don't know what it means.
Sorry.
Oh, yes.
Okay, so if their commitment through stoning and riots and threats and government persecution, if that's not clear, if that doesn't make their commitment clear to you, check out verses 21 to 23.
I'll read it again.
Or you can look at it.
When they had preached the gospel to that city, Derby,
and it made many disciples, they returned to Lystra and Iconium and Antioch.
They returned to Lystra, Iconium and Antioch.
Those people want to kill you guys, but they returned.
Why?
To strengthen the souls of the disciples, encourage them to continue the faith and saying through many tribulations, you must enter the kingdom of God.
They returned in the face of mortal danger to encourage, because you need courage for the mission.
They returned likely to answer questions, respond to doubts,
give comfort to those going through difficulty, teaching again about the kingdom of God, reinforcing the practices of faith, like worship, fasting, and prayer.
They return to give strength to the hearts of those who believe so that they would continue in the faith.
They invest despite the cost to themselves.
Because these are Christ's people, and we don't get to pick.
who he loves and calls us to love.
They even go so far, their commitment goes beyond all of that, going back to Antioch, the church that had sent them out on this journey.
Paul and Barnabas show commitment to that local church.
They testify and give all honor to the Lord.
Look, this is what God has done.
And they remain no little time with the disciples there.
The commitment to community is a commitment to the local church.
These spots, they weren't just like, it wasn't like a Bible study over there and a prayer group over here.
There weren't that many Christians.
They were all here.
This is all of us, that's it.
And so this local church, to commit to the local church is to commit to the mission because the mission goes forth from the local church and builds up the local church.
As you go out and make disciples,
Those disciples join a local church.
That local church equips, encourages comforts and corrects them.
They learn to make disciples.
They go out and make disciples.
Those disciples join the local church.
It doesn't have to be here.
I don't care where you go to church.
I just want you to follow Jesus.
Here's what I'm saying.
The local church is essential to the mission.
And the mission builds the local church.
Jesus said, go.
And so we go together.
Paul and Barnabas,
are not solo missionaries, they go together and they build up the local church.
Paul and Barnabas are good examples of investing in the local church.
They're constantly building it up at cost of their own selves, but they're also good examples of receiving from the local church.
It's really easy to think of the apostles, these leading men in the church as not needing anything.
But guys, Paul was dead and it was the disciples who rallied around him and prayed and he got back up.
In fact, you can see the support that they get throughout this passage.
News of the conspiracies at Iconium would have been passed by someone.
Safe travel from one town to another would have been supported and provided for.
They were going to places where there would not be ample lodging, but they would receive what was given to them by local disciples.
The whole trip was financed by the church in Antioch, sent and supported by a local church.
Paul and Barnabas are constantly receiving help and support.
Later in life, Paul would even write letters to churches he planted and thank them and bless them for their ongoing support.
Because without them, his ministry wouldn't work.
Now, in case you're not familiar, the them he's writing to are people that wouldn't have heard the gospel without Paul.
And so the church is a kid's big word, write it down, reciprocal community.
It's a reciprocal community where needs are met one by another.
The commitment to the local church, the commitment to the community of faith is recognizing, I need as much as I give and I give as much as I need.
And where everybody's ready to give, everybody's needs are met.
and realizing that the stuff I skipped on the previous page belongs right here.
So I'm just gonna go back.
And because of that, because the church is a place where those who are receiving are also giving and vice versa, we have to go together.
We have to.
Because I have needs that I can't fill myself.
And God is likely not gonna drop them out of the sky.
He's gonna use y'all.
And similarly, you have things that me and my family can provide.
And so rather than poof, it appears on your doorstep.
It appears on your doorstep because we're the ones who dropped it off.
It is God moving through the local church that continually builds us up and we need this.
We must go together because it's with real people in the flesh that we learn to live as Jesus commanded us to.
You cannot learn to forgive by yourself.
You need people who are gonna hurt you so that you can learn to forgive and receive forgiveness because you've hurt them too.
It's with the local church, the commitment to the community, investing in and receiving from, that we learn to pray, serve, love, heal, bear witness to Christ and rejoice in all circumstances.
The church is not a gym that you sign up to be a member of, too.
And you set personal goals for your personal strengths.
And as soon as those aren't being met, you dip out.
The church is a formational community where we enter in together saying, I need help.
Maybe I can help.
We say both simultaneously that all needs might be met and we might grow up together into the likeness of Christ.
We invest in and administer to others, brothers and sisters who can help us, friends in hard seasons, urging us in prayer and on mission.
To live on mission with Jesus, we need each other.
We need pastors, we need deacons, we need brothers and sisters.
Who will
encourage us and give us the heart to go on when we're so tired of praying for the same people and nothing happening.
When we're so tired of serving and showing kindness to people who will not receive it.
When we're so tired of trying to be genuine and gracious to our bosses and our coworkers and all they give us back is vitriol.
We need people around us
to encourage us.
And so to live on mission with Jesus, you need courage and you need community.
But greatest of all, you need Christ without whom you will have neither courage nor community.
We need Christ.
To live on mission with Jesus, you need to go with him in his presence.
Kids, what's Christmas about?
Somebody, any kids, just holler at me.
What's Christmas about?
Say it again.
Spending time with your family, that's what we do on Christmas, love that.
Jesus was born, and so we spend time with our family to rejoice in that fact.
Jesus was born.
Jesus being born means what?
Emmanuel, God with us.
God is with us, and so we go.
God is with us, and so we have courage.
God is with us, and so we have our people, and when we forget that God is with us, we can look at the people around us and remember their stories.
Remember the way he's used them in our lives.
Remember the way he has revealed himself to us through them.
And when all else fails, we can look at each other and say, I need you to tell me again.
because today my heart is faint and I need more of Christ to go on mission with Jesus.
Don't forget about Jesus.
I think that this one thing is why we get so tired of praying and sharing the gospel because we do it on our own strength and we forget to go with Christ.
thousands of years before Jesus walked the earth.
Moses, the man of God, stood in God's presence as God was telling them to go.
And Moses said, if you don't go with us, I'm not going.
The beginning of mission is the point of all mission, to know God and enjoy Him.
Do you today lack courage?
Do you lack community?
Are you hurting?
Do you have questions?
Do you need a guide to help you along the way?
Do you doubt and fear?
Come to Christ.
Come to Christ our healer.
Come to Christ our advocate.
Come to Christ our shepherd.
Come to Christ.
the king of heaven and earth.
There is nothing he will ask you to do that he has not already done himself.
There is nothing Jesus will ask you to do on his mission that he has not already done.
He left his home into heavenly places to become a child and a poor family.
He traveled across borders and learned different languages.
He endured hardships and temptations.
He loved difficult people.
He preached hard words to hard hearts.
He confronted authority with humility and grace.
He humbled himself.
He endured all to the death, even death on a cross.
He was exposed and shamed openly.
He was wounded for our transgressions.
Christ was crucified because of us.
We were the opposition to His mission.
We were the ones bringing persecution when all He brought His love
And as he was being nailed on the cross, offering himself to die for our sins, he did not shed curses upon us or secretly wish harm or look for a way out.
He prayed one simple thing, Father, forgive them.
They don't know what they're doing.
And now for those who have come to faith in him by his stripes, we are healed.
The baby born in a manger has become the Lamb of God.
than the risen king over heaven and earth.
Christ crucified has defeated death.
He is alive.
He is on the throne.
He is praying for you and he is on the move.
To live with him is to be on the move with him.
And he is calling you to himself.
So come and let him fill your heart with courage.
Come and let him fill your life with community.
With all of its beauties and hardships, come to Christ, follow Him on mission.
He will go with you, always, even to the end of the age.
Let's pray.
Father in Heaven, thank you for your Son, Jesus Christ, who has died and risen again that we might live.
And thank you for making the enemies of that story, your friends, your sons and daughters.
Thank you for bringing us here.
And God, as we respond to your word, I ask that you would move in our hearts and teach us to pray.
Teach us to pray that we would understand how to go with you on mission.
God give us ears to hear and eyes to see.
Amen.